Pol Anglada (born 1991) is a Spanish artist and illustrator known for his erotic queer drawings and collaborations in the fashion world. He works across visual art, fashion illustration, and editorial projects, garnering attention for his high-contrast illustrative and intimate style, and bringing queer desire into mainstream contexts. He has held residencies, notably with the Tom of Finland Foundation, exhibited internationally, including at CULTUREEDIT Gallery, Palazzo Soranzo Cappello (Venice), and C.G. Williams (London), and collaborated with brands such as Moncler, JW Anderson, and Loewe.

Anglada was born in 1991 in a small town near the Catalan Pyrenees in Spain. His father worked as an electrician and his mother came from a farming background. His grandmother was a skilled seamstress, which influenced his early exposure to textiles and craft. He drew inspiration from his father's comics and from classic comic and illustrators such as Milo Manara, Tanino Liberatore, and Enki Bilal. As a teenager, Anglada discovered the worlds of Ranxerox, Physique Pictorial, and Tom of Finland, which have all influenced Anglada's visual vocabulary.

He graduated from the IED Barcelona.

Anglada typically works in colored pencil, gouache, or watercolor, depicting figures and bodies in erotic motion, indulging in physical intimacy, and carrying out any number of kinks and fetishes. His visual language draws from magazine culture, comics, and erotic illustration traditions, with playful, sometimes explicit, imagery. Visual contemporaries include Mel Odom, Drake Carr, David Rappeneau, and David Hockney. Critics note that while the work traffics in eroticism, the artist's visual compositions succeed by constructing a distinct visual framework that includes narrative nuance, humor, and emotional depth.

In 2016, Anglada co-founded Free Time, an independent magazine and clothing project created with Paris-based designers Faye and Gina. The publication focuses on leisure and creative play, featuring zines, t-shirts, and hand-painted garments.

In 2023, his illustrations appeared on JW Anderson garments and were used for a Pride installation at the brand's London flagship store, featuring large-scale murals of men kissing and embracing.

2025, Walking on Eggshells, C.G. Williams, London (solo)
2024, Here, I shall find, living and growing, the coloured expansions of my pleasures, Palazzo Soranzo Cappello, Venice
2022 HOLE, CULTUREEDIT Gallery, Tom of Finland Foundation, Los Angeles (solo), The Hole, Los Angeles (solo) 
2022, Artist-in-Residence, Tom of Finland Foundation (TOM House), Los Angeles

Anglada's works and zines have been presented at the Paris Ass Book Fair (Palais de Tokyo) and featured in Document Journal, Platform, Artsy, 10 Magazine, and Gayletter.
