Braj cuisine is a cuisine originating from the Braj region of Northern India, that includes the Indian states of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. Braj in ancient Hindu mythology was the childhood home of Lord Krishna. Krishna's worship here has given rise to a gastronomic culture that embodies the principles of Satvik food. Dairy products that are commonly used in Braj cuisine are milk, cream, butter, ghee, mawa, yogurt, buttermilk and chhena. The high number of dairy products used as food source is with adherence to the region's devotion to Krishna.

Braj cuisine has its direct influences from Vaishnavism and its various Sampradayas like Pushtimarga tradition, Gaudiya Vaishnavism, Nimbarka Sampradaya, Radhavallabhi tradition. Vaishnavism signified the devotion to Radha, Krishna and to the holy cow. It also promoted the use of dairy products in worship and cuisine as milk being considered a symbol of purity and nourishment.

Vegetarianism is another tenet of Braj cuisine, reflecting the Vaishnavite emphasis on ahimsa (non-violence) and compassion.

Ayurvedic principles have also influenced Braj cuisine, with a focus on using seasonal ingredients, whole grains, and balancing flavors to promote health and well-being. The region's fertile soil and favorable climate have made it an ideal place for growing a variety of fruits, vegetables, grains, and spices which are incorporated into the cuisine.

Braj region is known for its community feasts known as Bhandara, where Satvik food is served to devotees at one place. Festivals in Braj region are associated with Chhapan Bhog tradition where fifty six special food items are offered to Krishna and then distributed among its devotees.

Signature dishes of Braj cuisine include - 
Bedmi puri 
Dubki wale aloo 
Mathura Heeng Kachori 
Vrindavan Dahi Arbi jhor
Vrindavan khichdi 
Janmashtami Panjiri 
Panchamrit prasad 
Agra Dalmoth 
Morena Tilpatti 

Vrindavan wali arbi with parata ( vrindavan colocasia with wheat flat bread).jpg|Vrindavan Dahi Arbi with paratha
Chappan Bhog.jpg|Chhapan Bhog offered to Shri Radha Krishna
