Fort Lowell Union Church, located in the Old Fort Lowell neighborhood of Tucson, in the U.S. state of Arizona, was constructed in 1917 from mud adobe. It served as a religious, cultural, and social hub for the local ranching and farming community. The building, designed in a late Sonoran Transitional Territorial style, is simple yet artistic and became a centerpiece in the historic area of Fort Lowell in the early to mid 20th century, fostering community engagement and spiritual growth for over a century.

The idea for the Fort Lowell Union Church was spearheaded by Edward C. Clark, an Anglican lay reader at Grace Episcopal Church and associated with St. Luke's Home. Clark envisioned creating a community church (part of the Community Church movement) in the rural Fort Lowell area, and by 1916, he had raised $1,000 to begin the construction. On April 1, 1917, construction of the small adobe chapel began. The property was donated by J. Knox Corbett, a prominent local figure who owned the nearby farm, and the funds to build the church were raised by the local community.

The original church building measured 20 x 40 feet and faced south, with its entrance directed toward the Roman Catholic Chapel of Rillito (San Angel de la Guarda Chapel) (later rebuilt after a tornado as San Pedro Chapel), which had been consecrated in 1916. The Union Church and the Catholic chapel, along with the 1913 Fort Lowell School, adobe houses, and a store, helped form the informal plaza known as El Fuerte. The church trustees included J.C. Daly, Franklin Ulrich, and E. C. H. Walker.

The Fort Lowell Union Church was constructed from traditional mud adobe, a common building material in the American Southwest and in Fort Lowell, known for its thermal insulation properties. The church featured a rectangular plan with a double front door facing south. The building's design included a pitched roof with exposed rafter tails, a prominent brick chimney on the west side, and double hung divided four light sash windows, on the east and west sides of the structure. Over time, the church underwent several modifications, including a mud adobe western addition (c. 1920/25) for a hall and support rooms, and a plastered exterior with a front porch added after World War II.

The church was completed and officially dedicated on June 24, 1917, with around 100 people in attendance. During the ceremony, Edward C. Clark offered a dedication prayer, and various clergy from Tucson churches, including Revs Clifford Binkhorst, Dixon, Comstock, and Purves, participated. John C. Daly, one of the trustees, donated a bas-relief of the San Xavier Mission, symbolizing the missionary principle. The pulpit used during services was a historic piece, having been gifted by the congregation of the old Congregational Church in Tucson.

The Fort Lowell Union Church quickly became a social center for the local community.
