The 2019 FA Cup Final was an association football match between Manchester City and Watford on 18&nbsp;May 2019 at Wembley Stadium in London, England. It was the 138th FA Cup final overall and was the showpiece match of English football's primary cup competition, the Football Association Challenge Cup (FA Cup), organised by the Football Association (FA). It was Manchester City's first FA Cup final appearance since 2013, when they lost 1–0 to Wigan Athletic. Watford were playing their second FA Cup final, the previous occasion being in 1984, when they were defeated 2–0 by Everton.

Kevin Friend was the referee for the match, which was played in front of 85,854 spectators. Manchester City dominated the early stages of the final. In the 21st minute, Abdoulaye Doucouré's shot struck Vincent Kompany's arm in the Manchester City penalty area but after consultation with the video assistant referee (VAR), Friend declined to award a penalty and showed Doucouré the first yellow card of the game for his subsequent protests. In the 26th minute the deadlock was broken, as David Silva scored from a Raheem Sterling header. Twelve minutes later Manchester City doubled their lead after Gabriel Jesus side-footed the ball past Kiko Femenía and Heurelho Gomes in the Watford goal. On 61 minutes City further extended their lead to 3–0 with a goal from substitute Kevin De Bruyne from close range. Seven minutes later, Jesus made it 4–0 after taking the ball on the counter-attack and shooting past Gomes. In the 81st minute, Sterling scored from a Bernardo Silva cross to make it 5–0, before scoring again in the 87th minute after his initial shot was pushed onto the post by Gomes. The match ended 6–0 to Manchester City: it was only the third time that a team has scored six goals in an FA Cup Final and the margin of victory is the joint-largest in an FA Cup Final, equalling Bury's 6–0 win over Derby County in 1903. 

Manchester City's De Bruyne was named man of the match. The win completed a domestic treble for Manchester City, who had already won the League Cup and the Premier League that season, unprecedented by any English men's team. As they had already qualified for the 2019–20 UEFA Champions League, City's European qualification place for winning the FA Cup went to Wolverhampton Wanderers, who entered the 2019–20 UEFA Europa League in the second qualifying round.
